---
layout: post
title:  "pain"
date:   2023-03-27 06:28:34 -0500
categories: pain
---
I really don't want to write today. I slept awful. I've been having constant buzzing in my brain the past week.

To be honest, I don't even know what my reason is for writing this morning. I think I just don't want to give up and I can't let myself fail. I told myself I would write at least 1 time per week no matter the circumstances and I've been doing the bare minimum for that.

For the past 5 weeks (likely more), I've been reading a ton of interesting information and trying to process/digest it in hopes that I can actually use it in my life. After finding Jason Fried and consuming some of his material, it was incredibly refreshing because he reinforced thoughts and ideas I'd already had with the way that he currently operates his business. In a world where so many people are focused on growth for growths sake, Fried is intentional about the way that his business and customer base grow. This makes a lot of sense to me, because I want to enjoy my life and I know that my time on this earth is finite and I don't want to waste it growing a business into outer space.

I really want to own my own business one day and I take a lot of inspiration from those who do it with a lot of intention and avoid the common trajectory of infinite, unplanned growth. But this past week has just been hell for me. There have been a few things that happened that were really taxing on my emotional system. Then there's the thoughts that I don't know what the fuck I'm doing in my life. I think about how I wake up early every day and try to push so hard to accomplish stuff and then realize that maybe I'm not actually doing shit or I'm not getting anywhere.

I could sit here and try to write something about business or software engineering or some idea that I recently had. I could try to describe one of my methods for generating ideas. I could talk about how I view time as our only finite resource. I could talk about something I recently read from Paul Jarvis' Company of One (a truly excellent book). But the reality is that I don't feel like doing any of that right now. I feel deep pain, a pain that comes and goes. Some days it's barely even noticable and I can't wait to get out of bed just to do a hard core workout, sweat my ass off, do a 15 min meditation and just have a really productive morning. Other days, it just eats me alive and I consider it a win if I actually get out of bed. At least today I made it out of bed and for that I'm grateful... that I can at least show up.

I suffer from a high level of anxiety. Over the past months I've put in a lot of effort to dissecting my thought patterns to try and understand why this happens to me and overcome the circular thought patterns. But as of lately, I've had a really hard time doing it. Less and less often am I am able to actually quiet my mind. Instead, I just get into infinite loops and I forget that I can break myself out of them and they're so distracting and unproductive thought patterns that it just weighs me down cognitively. I truly want to be the best version of myself but sometimes it's hard to stop these unproductive thoughts that occupy my mind rent free. I wish I could reach the state of a still mind rather than let it get in the way of me. I watched The Last Samuri on Friday for the first time and I thought it was a great movie. In one part, Katsumoto's son Nobutada says "Too many mind" to Algren as he's sparring. This deeply resonated with me because I feel that I suffer from this almost every day lately. 

I don't really know how to end this. I hope that I can re-stablize myself this week and stave off the mental distractions. I just want to keep learning, growing (personally) and experiencing life and all that it has to offer.